# Loan_Monitoring_Banking_App
A Mobile Application for Construction Loan Monitoring to reduce the credit risk of a Bank

A proper monitoring program can reduce the financial risk in a bank. In this context,
construction loans were considered and the progress of that loan and the practical issues were
identified. In such a monitoring program, information security takes the top priority since the
system is always working with customers’ sensitive data. In this research, the problems which
cause construction loans not to continue as the bank expected in order to gain the desired profit
is studied. Using the data accumulated during the study, a web application and a mobile
application is designed to closely monitor the progress of the construction process of the
customers and are given necessary instructions considering the data accumulated via the mobile
application to continue the construction process without a discontinuation due to disobedience
to the banks’ rules and regulations. The system helps both the bank and the customers to fulfil
their goals. Using this mobile application, construction progress and the expenses spent on is
automatically monitored without a physical inspection of a bank officer. This kind of
information technology-based inspections is safe and efficient specially in such pandemic
situations. After receiving the necessary photographs and the invoices via the mobile
application, the second phase of the construction loan is released to the customer. Such images
of the construction are monitored along with the GPS location of the original construction
location which customer provided at the initial loan application phase. Since, all the
information of the customer including their personal details and financial information are
exchanged in between web application and the mobile application, higher levels of encryption
methods are used to secure the privacy and integrity of the customer.
